Introducing Frontend Application Bundles

Fundamentally, FABs are about \_

- What can I do with them?
  _ Deploy a server-rendered NextJS app to Cloudflare workers
  _ Add server-side logic to a Create React App project, without ejecting
  _ Guard your application against unauthenticated users
  _ Deploy every commit to a unique URL to share progress with colleagues
  _ Pre-render a logged-in vs logged-out homepage and switch which one is served based on cookies.
  _

- What frameworks are supported?
  _ Client-side rendered React (e.g. Create React App & friends)
  _ Server-side, client-side & static pre-rendered NextJS
  _ VueJS, AngularJS, Svelte etc that compile to static assets
  _ Anything else that's fully static (i.e. any app that can be hosted on Netlify or S3) \* Custom server-side rendered applications, with some conversion.

- Where can I host them?
  _ Cloudflare Workers (free or \$5+/month, 200 cities worldwide, extremely high-performance)
  _ AWS Lambda@Edge (84 cities worldwide, some limitations, but good performance & matches well if you're using existing AWS infrastructure). Uses Cloudfront & S3 for asset hosting. \* Anywhere that can run NodeJS using `@fab/server`.

# How FABs unlock the edge

[Diagram: Backend (DBs, storage, APIs) – Edge (CDNs, <10ms to most users?, serverless) – User (browser)]

FABs are about giving you a _third place to run your code_, not just at the backend and in the client, but at the edge, too.

It's the same thing that JAMstack lets you do, except it doesn't let you run code, only host HTML.

# FAQs

**Q. Does the FAB get executed for every request? Even asset requests?**

A. It depends on your hosting setup. Hosting on Cloudflare Workers, since it sits in front of Cloudflare's cache, means that the worker will get executed on every request. That worker checks the cache/KV store before calling into your FAB, however, so that doesn't mean your code will always be invoked.

On the other hand, Lambda@Edge sits behind a Cloudfront distribution, and the [recommended architecture] sets up a rule that any request starting with `/_assets` will be directly sent to the S3 bucket with the assets. This means your Lambda is only booted for non-asset requests.

**Q. Do I need to compile my assets into /\_assets?**

No, but again, it can improve performance. In the case of hosting on Cloudflare Workers, there's really very little difference between assets served at `/_assets/main.12ab34cd.js` or `/static/main.12ab34cd.js`, the most important thing is that the [assets themselves are fingerprinted].

For hosting behind a CDN, such as Lambda@Edge and Cloudfront, the [best practice] is to divert requests starting with `/_assets` directly to your asset host, usually an S3 bucket. Unless your public URLs match that same scheme (i.e. you build your assets into a `_assets` folder inside your `build` or `dist` directory), your FAB will be invoked on every request in order to rewrite the asset paths. This will still work, but you might see an appreciable performance improvement by changing the paths that you use at build time.

**Q. **
